# Professional Self Assessment

Throughout my time in the Computer Science program at Southern New Hampshire University, I was able to expose myself to a lot of different topics within the Computer Science. I was able to build a foundational knowledge of Computer Science and programming that will serve me throughout my entire career. I have already entered the field of Software Engineering and obtained a full-time position as a Software Engineer, but I would not have been able to do this without the foundational knowledge I built at SNHU.

My time at SNHU taught me about subjects within the Computer Science domain such as Design and Engineering, Algorithms and Data Structures and Databases. I was able to revisit those topics in this capstone course and prove that I had really grown my skillset in all of those areas. For the topic of Software Engineering and Design, I was able to reflect on a past project and improve its design to be more scalable and maintainable. For Algorithms and Data Structures, I was able to reflect on a past implementation of a Data Structure and expand on it by adding new functionality to it and using a classic algoeithm to iterate over it. For the topic of databases, I was able to take a previous personal project that did not use a database at all and convert it into a RESTful API that interacts with a MongoDB database. Doing all this reflection work made realize how far I came with my skillset and so much of that is thanks to what I learned in the degree program at SNHU.

All throughought my time in SNHU I had been learning skills that would be critical to my career. A perfect example is the class we had about the Software Engineering Life Cycle. This class prepared me for what it would be like to work in a real team environment. I leanred about methodologies like waterfall and agile, where agile is what I use in my current software engineering job. Learned about this prepared me for the work environment and for what it would be like to answer and deliver to stakeholders. It also prepared me for communicating with stakeholders about the status projects and where they are at in the development timeline.

I'm very gratefuly for what I learned and I feel that it has served me really well so far in the job market. As stated above doing the reflection and enhancement work in this course really helped me remember that, and I believe the artifacts I created are perfect examples of this because I simply could have never created them prior to starting my degree program. Before starting my degree, I did not even know how to create a hello world program. But now, I was able to create a REST API that interacts with a database, implement a classic algorithm and refactor an existing software application without any external help, and I feel that really shows my growth as an engineer and as a student of Computer Science.
